Not FoundEverything you need to know about and expect during the most important election of our lifetimes The A.V.
Club Deadspin Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Lifehacker The Root The Takeout The Onion The Inventory Gaming Reviews, News, Tips and More.
Shop Subscribe Home Latest Video The Bests Highlight Reel Reviews Impressions Cosplay Gaming Reviews, News, Tips and More.
Home Latest Video The Bests Highlight Reel Reviews Impressions Cosplay Happy 25th Birthday, Super Mario Bros. Luke Plunkett 9/13/10 2:00AM • Filed to: Nintendo Nintendo super Mario bros Mario Top News 634 2 On September 13, 1985, Super Mario Bros. was released in Japan, meaning the world's most famous plumber's most famous game is now 25 years old.
Happy birthday!
Advertisement It seems almost pointless marking the occasion with a round-up, or a few paragraphs outlining his importance to video games - and video gamers - because it's Mario.
He isn't important to video games.
He is video games.
Whether appearing in his own flagship games or in spin-off titles where he plays basketball or becomes a paper airplane, Nintendo's mascot has been the most recognisable (and profitable) face this industry has ever - and will likely ever - see, almost single-handedly driving Nintendo through five whole generations of video game success.
Advertisement He is the most recognisable face in gaming.
His games are some of the highest-selling, and most critically-acclaimed of all time.
And while other companies and characters either disappear into the history books or undergo awkward changes as they cling to relevance, Mario remains almost exactly the same.
Still wearing redoveralls, still with that goofy moustache, still risking life and limb to rescue the same, careless Princess.
And what started it all?
Sure, he was in Donkey Kong in 1981, but he didn't have a name.
Sure, there was Mario Bros. in 1983, but it was the Famicom (and NES) edition of Super Mario Bros. that made him .
Heck, many people - myself included - would probably say that of all of Mario's core games, Super Mario Bros. was perhaps their favourite.
It's definitely the most iconic.
G/O Media may get a commission 1STPlayer Ultra Quiet 3-Pack RGB Case Fans W/ Remote Buy for $26 from Newegg So here's to you, Super Mario Bros. Others will pay their dues over the course of the day, I'm sure, so let me just say...happy birthday.
And may your next 25 years be as successful and enjoyable for us all as your first.
Share This Story Get our newsletter Subscribe More from Kotaku The 12 Best Games For The Nintendo Switch Steve From Minecraft Coming To Smash Bros.
Ultimate On October 13 Let's Rank The Call of Duty Games, From Worst To Best Sea Of Thieves Streamers Quit The Game In Protest Against Rare’s Response To Toxicity DISCUSSION Alex_Mexico 9/13/10 3:58AM Is that video an official video released by Nintendo of Japan, Luke?
Anyone?
See all replies You may also like Very Smart Brothas If You're Happy President Trump Tested Positive for COVID-19, You're Just as Bad as He Is Damon Young Yesterday 11:30AM Earther Melting Antarctic Ice Exposes 800-Year-Old Penguins That Still Look Fresh George Dvorsky Thursday 4:52PM News Nathan Apodaca’s viral cranberry-juice-and-longboard Tik Tok boosts sales of Fleetwood Mac’s “Dreams” by 374% Reid McCarter Yesterday 10:54AM G/O Media may get a commission 1STPlayer Ultra Quiet 3-Pack RGB Case Fans W/ Remote Buy for $26 from Newegg G/O Media may get a commission WD - easystore 4TB External Hard Drive Buy for $90 from Best Buy More from G/O Media Read on Melting Antarctic Ice Exposes 800-Year-Old Penguins That Still Look Fresh Read on You Don't Really Have An Excuse Anymore Read on The 100 Series Finale Pulled a Game of Thrones and I'm Still Laughing Read on Jessica Alba Says She Wasn't Allowed To Make Eye Contact With the Cast on Beverly Hills, 90210
