 Available now Visit site Tune in on 10/3 7:30 a.m. PT Available now Available now Available now Super Mario Bros. 35th Anniversary - Visit site Available now Available now Available now New Season Available now Pre-order now Available now Available now Free-to-play DLC available now Pre-order now Game Store: Buy, download, and play right away!
Shop games Explore gaming systems Nintendo Switch and Nintendo Switch Lite Starting at $199.99 MSRP* News Super Mario Bros. 35 is out now for Nintendo Switch Online members!
It’s the Super Mario Bros.™ game with a 35-player twist!
Race against time, defeat enemies, and sabotage your opponents in online battles to be the last Mario standing.
Steve and Alex from Minecraft are coming to Super Smash Bros.
Ultimate!
In a video this morning, Masahiro Sakurai, the creator of the Super Smash Bros. series, announced that Steve and Alex from Minecraft are the next playable fighters coming to the Super Smash Bros. New trailer gives an in-depth look at Mario Kart Live:... Dragalia Lost celebrates its 2nd Anniversary Pokémon announces launch date for The Crown Tundra exp...
Things are getting spooky in Animal Crossing: Pocket C... See all news New video game releases See all Paper Mario™: The Origami King Pokémon Café Mix Jump Rope Challenge Clubhouse Games™: 51 Worldwide Classics Characters Mario™ The Legend of Zelda™ Animal Crossing™ Kirby™ MSRP: Manufacturer's Retail Price.
Actual price may vary.
See retailer for details.
About Nintendo Company Info Careers CSR Report Sitemap Where To Buy Game Store Online Retailers Nintendo NY Nintendo Store Support Health & Safety Precautions Updated Warranty Nintendo Switch Support Wii U Support Nintendo 3DS Support Repair Help Nintendo Product Recycling Parents Info for Parents Parental Controls Legal Documents and Policies Terms of Use Privacy Privacy Policy Cookies and Interest-Based ads Change Region Contact Us Website Feedback © 2020 Nintendo.
Games are property of their respective owners.
Nintendo of America Inc. Headquarters are in Redmond, Washington
