
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 search: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Welcome 
 
 Directory 
 
 Features 
 
   Games 
 
 Hardware 
 
   News 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 gamecubicle.com
            features 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Features 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In-Depth 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buyer
                  Guides 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Editorials 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expo
                  Coverage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interviews 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Release
                  Dates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Specials 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In-Depth 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fun
                  Downloads 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Game
                  Music 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Desktop
                  Decors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Miscellaneous 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Few industry icons can claim the multitude of phenomenal successes
            that Nintendo game designer Shigeru Miyamoto can. Miyamoto's
            greatest creation, a character named Mario has reshaped the industry in many ways over
            the years. With the coming
            launch of Super Mario Sunshine, GameCubicle takes a look back at the
            history of Mario, from Miyamoto's first sketch of Mario to the character's
            domination of the video game universe...  
 
 Shigeru Miyamoto 
 
 
            Shigeru Miyamoto grew up in a modest home in Sonebe, Japan. An
            artist from his youngest years, Miyamoto took great joy in drawing
            and painting. Miyamoto's interests in art only increased over the years
            and he spent much time filling sketch pads with scenes of nature,
            creating puppets, constructing
            models, and creating lively characters
            through cartoon flip-books. 
 
 
 Miyamoto was also an adventurer
            and often took
            off to explore local creeks, fields, mountains, and forests. On one
            of his many outdoor adventures, Miyamoto came upon a dark cave in a
            hillside near his home. He eventually got up the nerve to explore it and with a
            lantern, climbed inside. Miyamoto still recalls the experience as
            one of the most exhilarating of his childhood.  
 
            In 1970, Miyamoto began attending Kanazawa Munici College of
            Industrial Arts and Crafts. He continued his many hobbies throughout
            college and even taught himself to play the guitar. Being
            an incessant daydreamer, Miyamoto never paid much attention in his
            classes and it took him five years to graduate with a degree in
            industrial design.  
 
            Following his graduation, Miyamoto asked his father to contact
            his old friend Hiroshi
            Yamauchi, then president of
            Nintendo, to request an interview. Yamauchi hired Miyamoto as Nintendo's first staff artist in 1977. 
 
 
 The Game that
            Saved NOA 
 
 Recognizing the business opportunities that an
            emerging North American arcade market offered, Hiroshi Yamauchi found an imperative in developing an independent
            Nintendo subsidiary in North America. In 1977, Yamauchi turned to his
            son-in-law Minoru Arakawa to lead the new firm. After much consideration, Arakawa
            accepted Yamauchi's offer and moved from
            Vancouver to Manhattan where he set up Nintendo of America's
            first office. 
 
 Arakawa's primary task
            was to break Nintendo into America's coin-operated arcade business.
            Nintendo of America (NOA) found only failure in its early efforts to
            meet this task (see: Space Fever and Sheriff). Impressed by the early success of
            a new arcade machine called Radarscope and in desperate need of a
            hit, Arakawa boldly ordered 3,000 Radarscope machines. Only
            1,000 units sold through to arcade owners and the Radarscope operation
            proved disastrous. 
 
            Finding little success in the North American arcade market, Nintendo
            of America was in a desperate situation.
            Arakawa decided it would be best to move the subsidiary's
            headquarters closer to NCL and thought Seattle to be the best
            location.  
 
            With Nintendo's best
            designers occupied on more important projects for the Japanese
            market, Yamauchi turned to young Nintendo artist Shigeru Miyamoto to
            design a coin-op arcade game that would bring success to Nintendo's efforts in
            North America. The imaginative Miyamoto conceived a story involving
            an angry gorilla that escapes from his master, kidnapping the
            master's girlfriend and taking her to the top of a construction
            site. Players control the master as he ascends the
            building, a factory, and a steel foundation, trying to save his
            girlfriend.  
 
 
            In designing the game's hero, Miyamoto sought to create a silly
            character with whom gamers could connect. He designed a pudgy
            carpenter with a rounded nose and wide eyes. The low resolution of
            video game displays at the time, in addition to hardware
            limitations of the Radarscope sets on which Donkey Kong would run,
            required Miyamoto to make a few adjustments so that gamers could
            discern the character's features. To make the carpenter easily visible, Miyamoto outfitted him with colorful overalls and shirt. A
            mustache was drawn in to distinguish the his large nose. Finally, a red cap was added because programmers found it difficult to create
            the hair movement that would occur when the character
            jumped. In the end, Miyamoto settled on the name Jumpman for the
            carpenter and Donkey Kong for his pet gorilla, believing that
            'donkey' translated into stubborn or silly in English. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            "I didn't know how to make a really cool character... so I made
                  Mario."  
 -
                  Shigeru Miyamoto 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            By 1981, Miyamoto had completed Donkey Kong - the game that saved Nintendo of America. While
            Yamauchi insisted that the Donkey Kong title remain unchanged, Nintendo of
            America was given the task of localizing the game's text for North
            America. Arakawa
            decided to rename Jumpman after the landlord of NOA's warehouse in
            Segali Business Park, Mario Segali. Thus, the name Super Mario was born.
            Donkey Kong soon became the fastest selling game that the arcade industry
            had ever seen, eventually selling 65,000 units. 
 
            In 1983, Mario would title in his own game, Mario Bros. On the
            input of a colleague who mentioned the character looked more like a plumber
            than a carpenter, Miyamoto decided to change Mario's
            profession. In Mario Bros., Mario and his brother Luigi must
            clear underground pipes of unwanted pests including crabs, turtles,
            and fireflies. Playing cooperatively or against each other, players
            had to jump from beneath an enemy to overturn it and then kick it away to
            score a gold coin from the piping system. Mario Bros. proved only a
            moderate success while in arcades but the best was yet to come. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Super Mario 
 
            Never at ease with the state of current affairs, Yamauchi sought to
            expand Nintendo's business in a substantial way. In May of 1983,
            Nintendo launched the Family
            Computer - or Famicom. The incredibly innovative home console would lay the foundation of a new pathway
            for Nintendo. A technological work of art, Famicom featured
            incredible power at an affordable price in a very functional
            package. Nintendo sold more than
            500,000 Famicoms within two months of the console's launch.  
 
 
            Evaluating Famicom operations, Yamauchi realized the immense importance of software.
            "The name of the game is the games." In 1984, Yamauchi
            assigned Shigeru Miyamoto to lead R&D4, a new development group within
            Nintendo. Miyamoto's single mission was to create the most inventive
            video game ever made. He succeeded. The game, Super Mario
            Bros., would forever change the video game industry. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 "The decision
                  was one of the smartest Yamauchi would ever make. Miyamoto, it
                  was soon apparent, had the same talent for video games as the
                  Beatles had for popular music. It is impossible to calculate
                  Miyamoto's value to Nintendo, and it is not unreasonable to
                  question whether Nintendo would have succeeded without him." -
                  David Sheff, Game Over 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Recognizing the early success of Famicom in Japan, Yamauchi wished
            to take the console to North America. In mid-1985, Nintendo of
            America brought the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) to New York
            City, considered by Nintendo to be one of the most difficult markets
            in the nation for video games. Toy retailers at the time still had
            memories of the industry's recent implosion fresh in mind. To get consoles onto store
            shelves, NOA made the bold move of offering a money-back guarantee to retailers for unsold
            merchandise. By the end of the
            year 500 retailers in New York City sold half of the 100,000 NES
            systems allocated to Nintendo of America. Though it was far from spectacular,
            the New York City NES test launch was a success. 
 
 
            Meanwhile in Japan, Super Mario Bros. was
            about to be released. In designing the game, Miyamoto borrowed
            many ideas from his
            childhood experiences and books he had read over the years. Ideas
            for hidden blocks, multiple pathways within each level, and underground
            passages came from Miyamoto's childhood adventures. His memory of exploring caves
            and canyons in Sonebe for example shaped the game's underground levels.
            Miyamoto's fascination with the unseen and unexpected weighed into
            the addition of pipes to the Mushroom Kingdom. The idea for mushrooms that
            increase Mario's stature was taken directly from Alice in Wonderland.  
 
 
            Super Mario Bros. would define a new era in gaming.
            Graphically, the colorful world of the Mushroom Kingdom was unlike
            anything gamers had ever seen before. Super Mario Bros. was a first in the
            side-scroller genre and truly absorbed gamers of all ages in to a
            fantastic world that could only have been experienced in a dream. 
 
 
 
 
            When Super Mario Bros. was released in late 1985 it was an immediate
            and unprecedented
            success. Later that year, Nintendo bundled Super Mario Bros. with
            Famicom and console sales increased. Mario was a system-seller. While
            Super Mario Bros. was breaking records in Japan, Nintendo was
            readying a North American NES launch. While early test launches
            suggested moderate success for NES, Mario would arrive in time to
            change the equation for NES's national launch in 1986. Mario's
            legacy as an icon for the whole of the video game industry
            was sealed. In following years, Mario would prove to be the most
            valuable name in video game history.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 "What if you
                  walk along and everything that you see is more than what you
                  see... What if, on a crowded street, you look up and see
                  something appear that should not, given what we know, be
                  there. You either shake your head and dismiss it, or you
                  accept that there is much more to the world than we think.
                  Perhaps it really is a doorway to another place. If you choose
                  to go inside you may find many unexpected things." -
                  Shigeru Miyamoto 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            In 1987, a game titled Dream Factory: Doki Doki Panic was released
            in Japan. Developed by Nintendo and Fuji, Doki tells the story of
            two children who are pulled by a large green hand into a book they
            are reading. Their pet monkey runs to find help from another family
            who themselves jump into the the novel. Gamers were then left to
            select a family member with whom to progress through the book's
            chapters. Doki performed well in Japan and that might have been the
            last we heard of the game if it weren't for a hole in Nintendo of
            America's holiday release schedule the following year. 
 
 
 
            With North American demand for a sequel to Super Mario Bros.
            peaking, Nintendo bought out Fuji's rights to Doki Doki Panic and
            modified the game to feature Mario, Luigi, Princess, and Toad. The game was released
            in North America as Super Mario Bros. 2 during the 1988 holiday
            season. With vegetables, potions, shyguys, and cactii, SMB2's
            gameplay and setting were completely unique from what gamers
            experienced with the original SMB. Nevertheless, most gamers enjoyed
            the Mario experience just the same.  
 
 
 
 In Japan, Super Mario Bros. 2 had already been released as a direct sequel to
            Super Mario Bros. based on the original game's engine. SMB2 offered slightly improved
            graphics and considerably more challenging gameplay. While the game
            performed extremely well in Japan, SMB2 was thought to be too
            difficult for American gamers at the time. It wouldn't be until 1993
            that the game was finally released in
            North America as Lost Levels, part of the Super Mario All-Stars SNES
            compilation. The American
            SMB2 would eventually be released in Japan as Super Mario Bros.
            U.S.A. 
 
 
 
 It
            had been four years since the introduction of Super Mario Bros. when
            the game's first true sequel from Shigeru Miyamoto was finally
            released in Japan. Featuring eight worlds, each containing numerous
            levels, the game used an innovative map navigation system and was
            the largest in the series yet. The game's story was very familiar. Bowser has captured the Princess and taken over the Mushroom
            Kingdom. His seven children have stolen the royal wands of each
            world.  
 
            While staying true to the format of the original, SMB3 introduced new
            gameplay elements including special
            suits that gave Mario new abilities. The Tanooki Suit for example
            gave Mario the ability to turn into a statue, the
            Sledgehammer suit let Mario throw hammers, and the Frog Suit
            enhanced Mario's swimming and jumping skills. Mario could also fly
            with a cute raccoon tail and find warp whistles carefully hidden in
            certain levels. Super Mario Bros. 3 is considered by many to be the
            best Mario game in the series.  
 
 
 
 
            The first that most North American gamers got to see of Super Mario Bros.
            3 was in The Wizard, a movie about a child video game prodigy who
            travels with his brother to the West coast, where he competes in a
            national video game contest. The film culminates in the unveiling of
            Super Mario Bros. 3. Nintendo's marketing effort was flawless and
            demand for the game at launch was more than even Nintendo
            anticipated. Super Mario Bros. 3 remained sold out for months after
            its North American release. According to a national survey in 1990, Mario was more recognizable among
            American youths than Mickey Mouse.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 "Mario can do
                  amazing physical things like high jumps but he's not
                  superhuman; he drowns in water and gets hurt if he falls from
                  high places." -
                  Shigeru Miyamoto 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In the same year,
            Nintendo was beginning to face serious
            competition in the video game industry. Distracted by its own success, Nintendo stood on the sidelines as NEC and Sega introduced
            their respective '16-bit' consoles. Nintendo's Masayuki Eumura had
            been working on a follow-up to Famicom for years by this time but
            with NES sales strong as ever, Nintendo saw no imperative in
            hastening the new console's launch. 
 
            Both TurboGraphx and Sega Genesis were on the market for more than a
            year before Nintendo's Super Famicom was ready for release. Yamauchi
            realized that Nintendo needed to offer consumers a compelling reason
            to invest in a new video game console - especially one that was not compatible
            with existing software. He turned to Shigeru Miyamoto for a game
            that would show off the processing power of the new console and sell
            systems. 
 
            Miyamoto created Super Mario World. In this adventure, Mario and
            Luigi take off for a
            vacation on Dinosaur Island to recuperate from their adventures when
            they finds out that the Princess has again disappeared. Mario
            must head out across Dinosaur Island's seventy-four levels to find
            the Princess and save Yoshi's friends. The game was non-linear and
            certain levels even had to be played multiple times to find hidden
            keys that opened new roads on the overworld
            map. Landscape changing switch blocks were added to the game adding
            replay value to each level. Super Mario World also introduced Yoshi, a little
            green dinosaur
            that provides protection and transport for Mario. While the game
            truly demonstrated Super Famicom's technical abilities, Super Mario World was
            ultimately not as great of a leap from Super Mario Bros. 3 as it
            could have been. Nevertheless, it was a massive success.  
 
            In Japan, there were an astounding 1.5 million retail orders for
            Super Famicom at launch. The console and games had
            to be shipped to retailers in secret. When the console was finally
            launched, shortages were so severe that near-riots were reported at
            some video game stores.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            "An adult is a child who has more ethics and morals. That's
            all. When I am a child, creating, I am not creating a game. I am in
            the game. The game is not for children, it is for me. It is for the
            adult who still has a character of a child." 
                   -
                  Shigeru Miyamoto 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            A New Dimension 
 
 
            Since the moment Miyamoto made his first sketch of Mario, the
            character existed in only two dimensions. After fifteen years,
            there was a paradigm shift in the Mushroom Kingdom. Mario and the
            whole of his universe was rendered in three dimensions. Controlled with a 360º analog
            stick, Mario could run, walk, jump, or tip-toe through vast
            non-linear levels of Super Mario 64. As he had done years before
            with Super Mario Bros., Miyamoto again defined a new genre in
            gaming, the 3D platformer.  
 
 
            Although the title's gameplay significantly changed, the storyline
            did not... Bowser has again kidnapped the Princess and stolen the
            Power Stars that protect Mushroom Castle. Providing for the game's
            overworld structure, Bowser hides the stars inside the castle's
            paintings. Mario must enter paintings and recapture the stars to
            progress through the game. Like Super Mario Bros. on the NES, Super
            Mario 64 was a giant leap for console gaming. Yet despite the new
            format, Super Mario 64 offered an experience remarkably similar to
            earlier Mario games. 
 
 Super
            Mario 64 would be the launch title for Nintendo's 64-bit home
            console entry, Nintendo 64. With few games available at launch, the
            success of Nintendo 64 depended on Mario. Nintendo's famous launch
            advertisement read, "On September 30th, Dinosaurs will
            Fly." Fly they did. Super Mario 64 sold one to one
            with Nintendo 64 throughout the console's launch period and the
            console broke all
            outstanding launch records at the time in Japan and North America. If there ever was a
            "system-selling" title, it was Super Mario 64. Nintendo 64's installed base grew
            to 4 million by the end of 1996 on the shoulders of one game.  
 
 
            With the transition to three dimensions came distinctive
            evolution in Nintendo's approach to game design. "In the old days, Miyamoto created
            puzzles then built screens around them," describes industry
            expert Steven Kent
            in an article on Shigeru Miyamoto. Because
            of the growth in sophistication of games for modern consoles, Miyamoto
            finds "it is often easier to create landscapes and
            then figure out what to do with them." One example Miyamoto
            offers is Cool Cool Mountain from Mario 64. "We wanted to make
            a snowy mountain in Mario 64 - a really big one. That came first,
            and afterward we talked about ideas of how to make use of this
            mountain." 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mario's
            Success 
 
 
 
 
            In the last twenty years, over 160 million Mario games have been sold. Topping
            the list, more than 40 million copies of Super Mario Bros. were sold on the NES and
            20.6 million copies of Super Mario World on SNES. However, because these games were bundled with
            console hardware, their sales may not be fairly compared to other
            games. To this day Super Mario Bros. 3 remains the best-selling video game of all time
            never bundled with console hardware, having sold 17.28 million copies.
            For additional information, click the Mario Sales link below. 
 
 
 
 
            The Mario brand has proven to be a priceless asset to Nintendo. The franchise has been branched out into an number of
            games over the years. Dr. Mario, Mario Golf, Mario Kart, Mario Party, Mario Tennis,
            Mario RPG, and Mario Paint, to name a few. Over
            the years, Mario's products have come to include cartoon shows,
            movies, books, hats, plush dolls, cereals, t-shirts, lunch boxes, ice
            cream, bedding, kitchenware, clocks, and the list goes on. Mario has
            even appeared on the cover of Nintendo Power eighteen times - more than any
            other character. 
 
 
            Mario's legacy continues to grow every year. As Super Mario Sunshine climbs the list of
            best-selling Mario games, additional titles are still on their way.
            Hudson's Mario Party 4 improves upon the classic series first
            introduced on the Nintendo 64. Meanwhile, Mario Tennis and Mario
            Golf are under development at Camelot Software for release on
            GameCube sometime next year. Mario's history may already be set in
            stone but Nintendo has every intention of seeing Mario games
            dominate the sales charts for years to come. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Nintendo's
                  Shining Star :   
   Mario
                  Sales Numbers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Super Mario Sunshine 
 
 
 
 
            Nintendo GameCube was the first video game console launched
            worldwide by Nintendo without the support of a Mario game.
            With the launch of Super Mario Sunshine, Nintendo will begin the most aggressive assault it's
            ever mounted to win back its position the video game industry. At
            this year's Electronics Entertainment Expo, Nintendo introduced Game
            Giants - a reference to their strongest franchises - as their focal
            strategy to dominating this year's holiday season. Super Mario
            Sunshine will be the first to the forefront, followed by Star Fox
            Adventures, Metroid Prime, and the Legend of Zelda. 
 
 
 In Super Mario Sunshine,
            entirely new
            game elements are combined with classic Mario gameplay to create one of the most
            unique and enjoyable Mario adventures yet. The storyline of Super Mario Sunshine is much different than
            previous games in the series. The adventure begins when Mario and Peach decide to take a vacation to
            the beautiful Dolphic Island. When the couple arrives on the island,
            they notice
            ugly scribble marks covering the walls throughout the community.
            What's worse, the person responsible for the scribbling has
            disguised himself to look just like Mario. Falsely accused
            by the locals, Mario decides to investigate the situation. Armed
            with a new water-pumping backpack, Mario climbs trees, wall jumps off
            buildings, hangs from gates, walks on on tightropes, and swims
            through coral reefs on his quest to reveal the identity of the true villain. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Nintendo's
                  Shining Star :   
   Super
                  Mario Sunshine     
 Interview
                  with Creators 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            The truly defining aspect of Super Mario Sunshine's is
            unquestionably Mario's new water backpack, named F.L.U.D.D.
            The idea for Mario's water backpack came from Yoshiaki Koizumi,
            Director of Super Mario Sunshine. Like the special suits
            and hats of earlier Mario games, the
            inventive devise adds an entirely new dynamic to Mario's adventure
            and allows for many new gameplay elements. The backpack can be toggled to
            spray a stream of water in any
            direction or shoot downward to propel Mario into the air. Mario can use both
            backpack functions to clear sludge and defeat enemies. Enabling Mario to
            hover for extended lengths, the pack also greatly increases Mario's
            mobility. Later in the game, additional nozzles can be found, giving
            Mario the ability to perform incredibly high jumps and propel himself
            around levels. Players will also have to worry about conserving water and
            finding locations to refill Mario's backpack. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 "When I submitted the basic proposal for the game to
                  Mr. Miyamoto, I had already come up with the water-pistol
                  idea. I tried to explain how the analog stick could make
                  players feel the touch of a water pistol... What I really
                  wanted to reproduce with this new game were the feelings we
                  had in our childhoods when we were playing. The water pistol
                  idea came from this effort. I wanted players to feel the
                  coldness of water. I wanted players to engage in mischief,
                  such as watering other characters or playing with mud." -
                  Yoshiaki Koizumi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            After an eleven year absence, Mario's close friend Yoshi finally
            returns in Super Mario Sunshine. Yoshi speeds along Mario's quest
            and even adds additional depth to the game's gameplay. Like the
            meter on Mario's backpack, Yoshi now carries a juice meter that
            gradually runs out as Mario rides him. The meter can be replenished by
            feeding him fruit. Yoshi can even throw up fruit punch for some humorous ends. 
 
 
            Sunshine's controls are easy to pick up and very responsive. The
            basic system is derived from Super Mario 64 and the button layout is
            near flawless. In many respects, GameCube's controller almost seems
            like it was designed for this
            game. Mario's
            transition into three dimensions brought with it
            some difficulties first seen in Mario 64. The camera system
            in particular is still somewhat of an obstacle and is perhaps the game's only significant flaw.
            While game designers wanted to give players near autonomous control
            over the camera system, the system's occasional failure to
            auto-correct can be
            very frustrating.  
 
 
            Mario's water backpack serves to resolve at least one
            control issue by improving the gamer's ability to manipulate Mario as he jumps from
            one platform
            to another. Miyamoto explains, "Making precise movements, such
            as jumping, are not easy in 3D games... Hovering contributes to the
            smooth play." Because the game's designers felt the water
            backpack could make certain levels too easy to navigate, use of the
            tool is
            limited in some areas of the game. 
 
            Graphically, Super Mario Sunshine is somewhat varied. At times the
            game can be less than impressive. However, Miyamoto created Mario's
            environment to been one of fantasy and imagination so any
            expectation that the game's appearance should have rivaled the likes
            of Star Fox
            Adventures would be
            unfair. This is not to say that Super Mario Sunshine's graphics
            aren't beautiful.
            The game's colorful worlds have a life of their own and are
            incredibly fun to
            explore. From any point in a level, Mario can see structures and
            animated characters clear to the horizon. Additionally, the real-time lighting effects
            in the game are nothing
            short of spectacular. Keep an eye out for free moving
            fully-reflective surfaces. The sludge, water, and heat wave effects are also
            beautifully designed and very
            entertaining.  
 
            Overall, Super Mario Sunshine can be viewed as Mario 64 taken to the
            next level in every possible respect. The new environments of
            Dolphic Island in addition to Mario's water backpack create an
            entirely new feel to the Mario experience, which is looking to be
            the best yet. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 "Thanks for saving us Mario, but our princess is in
                  another castle." 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Super Mario Sunshine may not be Mario's only adventure on GameCube
            though.
            According to Nintendo, Mario could be returning for a second time
            around sooner than you might expect. When designing Super Mario
            Sunshine, Nintendo established a new GameCube development system that
            permits for significantly reduced game project times. According to Miyamoto, once the system was created,
            Super Mario Sunshine took only a year and a half to develop. In a recent interview Miyamoto expressed great
            interest in developing another Super Mario game for GameCube and
            commented that key designers of the Mario series have been divided
            into several teams, "in order to introduce Mario series games
            with less lag time between them." 
 
 
 
 
 
  
            Rick - Editor in
            Chief, GameCubicle 
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Article References 
 
 
            Kent, Steven L. "If Shakespeare Made Games."  The Japan
            Times . Tokyo, Japan. June 7, 2001. 
 
 
 
            Kent, Steven L.  The First Quarter: A 25-Year History of Video
            Games . BWD Press, Washington. 2000. 
 
 
 
 Nintendo Power . Nintendo of
            America, Washington. 1988-2002. 
 
 
 
 Sheff, David.  Game Over: How Nintendo Zapped an American
                       Industry, Captured Your Dollars and Enslaved Your
                       Children . Random House, New York. 1993. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            GameCubicle.com is an independent site and is in no way associated
            with Nintendo Co. Ltd. or NOA 
            Nintendo's official GameCube site can be found at  http://www.nintendo.com 
 
            © 2000-2001 GamingFog.com - All Rights Reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
