Everything you need to know about and expect during the most important election of our lifetimes The A.V. Club Deadspin Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Lifehacker The Root The Takeout The Onion The Inventory Gaming Reviews, News, Tips and More. Shop Subscribe Home Latest Video The Bests Highlight Reel Reviews Impressions Cosplay Gaming Reviews, News, Tips and More. Home Latest Video The Bests Highlight Reel Reviews Impressions Cosplay Mario Is Officially A Plumber Again Jason Schreier 3/06/18 10:04AM • Filed to: mario mario plumber super mario kotakucore nintendo 62 14 In September, Nintendo crushed hearts across the world by declaring that Mario was  no longer a plumber . This week, the publisher has remedied that horrible mistake, changing Mario’s bio to note that he is, in fact, a plumber. Advertisement Previously, as translated by  Kotaku ’s Brian Ashcraft, the official Japanese Mario bio had read: “All around sporty, whether it’s tennis or baseball, soccer or car racing, he [Mario] does everything cool. As a matter of fact, he also seems to have worked as a plumber a long time ago.” This week, though, fans on the Nintendo subreddit noticed that  the bio has changed . Now, as translated by  Kotaku ’s Tim Rogers (brackets his), it reads: Has a sunny disposition; is popular with everyone. He gets along super-well with his younger twin brother Luigi. They’re a famous combo. Has a universal knack for sports—from tennis to baseball, from soccer to car racing, he can do it all and look cool doing it. His occupation is plumber. However, his activities don’t stop there. He loves Princess Peach. If she is ever in trouble, he will go to help her no matter what [he will drop whatever he is doing if she needs help; literally “no matter what time it is, he will go to help her”]. With his specialty jump and various power-ups, he opposes the mischief-making Koopa [Bowser]. Advertisement Finally, our long international nightmare is over. Mario is a plumber again. May the Year of Luigi continue forever. Jason Schreier Posts Email Twitter News editor. Author of  Blood, Sweat, and Pixels . Share This Story Get our newsletter Subscribe More from Kotaku And Now For Some Incredible Ciri Cosplay Star Wars: Squadrons:  The  Kotaku  Review EVE Online  Gets An Actual 'Spreadsheets In Space' Mode Let's Rank The  Assassin's Creed  Games, Worst To Best DISCUSSION DigitalGemini 3/06/18 10:21AM “He gets along super-well with his younger twin brother Luigi.”  Ummmm, I mean if he’s younger by seconds okay but....  See all replies You  may also like Very Smart Brothas If You're Happy President Trump Tested Positive for COVID-19, You're Just as Bad as He Is Damon Young Yesterday 11:30AM Earther Melting Antarctic Ice Exposes 800-Year-Old Penguins That Still Look Fresh George Dvorsky Thursday 4:52PM News Nathan Apodaca’s viral cranberry-juice-and-longboard Tik Tok boosts sales of Fleetwood Mac’s “Dreams” by 374% Reid McCarter Yesterday 10:54AM G/O Media may get a commission 1STPlayer Ultra Quiet 3-Pack RGB Case Fans W/ Remote Buy for $26 from Newegg G/O Media may get a commission WD - easystore 4TB External Hard Drive Buy for $90 from Best Buy More from G/O Media Read on Please, For The Love Of God, Let Masahiro Sakurai Rest Read on Folks: He's Got It Read on Melting Antarctic Ice Exposes 800-Year-Old Penguins That Still Look Fresh Read on U-Haul's Motorcycle Trailer Is Really Good But You Can't Ever Own One