Everything you need to know about and expect during the most important election of our lifetimes The A.V. Club Deadspin Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Lifehacker The Root The Takeout The Onion The Inventory Gaming Reviews, News, Tips and More. Shop Subscribe Home Latest Video The Bests Highlight Reel Reviews Impressions Cosplay Gaming Reviews, News, Tips and More. Home Latest Video The Bests Highlight Reel Reviews Impressions Cosplay Mario Is Officially No Longer A Plumber Brian Ashcraft 9/04/17 5:00AM • Filed to: mario mario super mario bros. shigeru miyamoto kotakueast japan nintendo 169 13 [Image:  Nintendo ] According to Mario’s newly updated, official  Japanese-language profile , the iconic character isn’t working as a plumber. This shouldn’t be a total surprise, because the character seems to do everything but plumbing. Advertisement But doesn’t going down Warp Pipes count? Doesn’t appear so! Here is how the recently uploaded  Mario profile  explains the character: All around sporty, whether it’s tennis or baseball, soccer or car racing, he [Mario] does everything cool. As a matter of fact, he also seems to have worked as a plumber a long time ago... Advertisement Mario hasn’t always been a plumber. According to Shigeru Miyamoto, the character, then named “Jumpman,” was “basically a carpenter” in 1981's  Donkey Kong , because the game takes place on a construction site. “With (1983's)  Mario Bros. , we brought in Luigi and a lot of the game was played underground so we made him to fit that setting and, we decided he could be a plumber,” Miyamoto previously told  USA Today . “The scenario dictates his role.”  G/O Media may get a commission 1STPlayer Ultra Quiet 3-Pack RGB Case Fans W/ Remote Buy for $26 from Newegg Think Mario was ever a real doctor? Kotaku East is your slice of Asian internet culture, bringing you the latest talking points from Japan, Korea, China and beyond. Tune in every morning from 4am to 8am. Brian Ashcraft Posts Email Twitter Originally from Texas, Ashcraft has called Osaka home since 2001. He has authored six books, including most recently,  The Japanese Sake Bible . Share This Story Get our newsletter Subscribe More from Kotaku What The Fuck, LA Comic Con Is Going Ahead The 12 Best Games On Xbox Game Pass Among Us  Has A Cheating Problem Steve From  Minecraft  Coming To  Smash Bros. Ultimate  On October 13 DISCUSSION rolfesam 9/04/17 5:18AM the gig economy claims another, smh  See all replies You  may also like Very Smart Brothas If You're Happy President Trump Tested Positive for COVID-19, You're Just as Bad as He Is Damon Young Yesterday 11:30AM Earther Melting Antarctic Ice Exposes 800-Year-Old Penguins That Still Look Fresh George Dvorsky Thursday 4:52PM News Nathan Apodaca’s viral cranberry-juice-and-longboard Tik Tok boosts sales of Fleetwood Mac’s “Dreams” by 374% Reid McCarter Yesterday 10:54AM G/O Media may get a commission 1STPlayer Ultra Quiet 3-Pack RGB Case Fans W/ Remote Buy for $26 from Newegg G/O Media may get a commission WD - easystore 4TB External Hard Drive Buy for $90 from Best Buy More from G/O Media Read on Here Are a Bunch of Pictures of Donald Trump Taking the Pandemic Seriously Read on The 100  Series Finale Pulled a  Game of Thrones  and I'm Still Laughing Read on A Brief History of the 72 Hours Before President Trump Was Diagnosed With Covid-19 Read on Please, For The Love Of God, Let Masahiro Sakurai Rest