
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mario (franchise) 
 
 From Wikiquote 
 
 
 
 Jump to navigation 
 Jump to search 
   It’s-a Me, Mario! 
 The  Mario  franchise  is a video game  franchise  created by Japanese  game designer   Shigeru Miyamoto  and published by  Nintendo . The franchise originated with the  title character 's debut in the 1981 arcade game  Donkey Kong . Over 200 games are included in the franchise, and together they comprise the  best-selling video game franchise of all time . The series depicts the eponymous jumping  plumber  as  he rescues  Princess Peach  from capture by  Bowser .
 
 See also 
 Super Mario Bros. (film) , for quotes from the 1993 film adaptation 
 Contents 
 
 1   Quotes 
 
 1.1   Super Mario  series 
 
 1.1.1   Super Mario Bros. 
 1.1.2   Super Mario Bros. 2 
 
 1.1.2.1   The Lost Levels 
 1.1.2.2   Super Mario USA 
 
 
 1.1.3   Super Mario Bros. 3 
 1.1.4   Super Mario Land 
 1.1.5   Super Mario World 
 1.1.6   Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins 
 1.1.7   Super Mario 64 
 1.1.8   Super Mario Sunshine 
 1.1.9   Super Mario Galaxy 
 1.1.10   Super Mario Galaxy 2 
 1.1.11   Super Mario Odyssey 
 
 
 1.2   Dr. Mario 
 1.3   NES Open Tournament Golf 
 1.4   Mario Kart  series 
 
 1.4.1   Super Mario Kart 
 1.4.2   Mario Kart 64 
 1.4.3   Super Circuit 
 1.4.4   Double Dash!! 
 1.4.5   Mario Kart DS 
 1.4.6   Arcade GP 
 1.4.7   Arcade GP 2 
 1.4.8   Mario Kart Wii 
 1.4.9   Mario Kart 7 
 1.4.10   Arcade GP DX 
 1.4.11   Mario Kart 8 (Deluxe) 
 
 
 1.5   Educational games 
 1.6   Wario Land  series 
 1.7   Wario's Woods 
 1.8   Yoshi  series 
 1.9   Game & Watch Gallery  series 
 1.10   Hotel Mario 
 1.11   Mario Golf  series 
 1.12   Mario Tennis  series 
 1.13   Mario Party  series 
 
 1.13.1   Mario Party 
 1.13.2   Mario Party 2 
 1.13.3   Mario Party 3 
 1.13.4   Mario Party 4 
 1.13.5   Mario Party 5 
 1.13.6   Mario Party 6 
 1.13.7   Mario Party Advance 
 1.13.8   Mario Party 7 
 1.13.9   Mario Party 8 
 1.13.10   Mario Party DS 
 1.13.11   Mario Party 9 
 1.13.12   Island Tour 
 1.13.13   Mario Party 10 
 1.13.14   Star Rush 
 1.13.15   Top 100 
 1.13.16   Super Mario Party 
 
 
 1.14   RPG games 
 
 1.14.1   Paper Mario  series 
 1.14.2   Mario & Luigi  series 
 
 
 1.15   Super Mario Advance 
 1.16   Luigi's Mansion 
 1.17   Wario Ware, Inc. 
 
 
 2   About the  Mario  franchise 
 
 2.1   Super Mario History 1985–2010 
 2.2   Miscellaneous sources 
 
 
 3   Cast 
 4   External links 
 
 
 
 Quotes [ edit ] 
 Super Mario  series [ edit ] 
 Super Mario Bros. [ edit ] 
 Thank you, Mario! But our Princess is in another castle!
 Repetitive line spoken by every one of the seven Mushroom Retainers 
 Super Mario Bros. 2 [ edit ] 
 The Lost Levels [ edit ] 
 Peace is paved with kingdom saved/Hurrah to Mario, our only hero/This ends your trip of a long friendship.
 Poem seen after saving  Princess Toadstool 
 Super Mario USA [ edit ] 
 Welcome to "Subcon," the land of dreams. We have been cursed by  Wart  and we are completely under his evil spell. We have been awaiting your arrival. Please defeat Wart and return Subcon to its natural state. The curse Wart has put on you in the real world will not have any effect upon you here. Remember, Wart hates vegetables. Please help us!
 Quotation spoken to Mario by a faint voice in the manual. 
 Super Mario Bros. 3 [ edit ] 
 Oh, it's terrible! The King has been transformed! Please find the Magic Wand so we can change him back.
 Line spoken by the Toads that appear next to kings who have been transformed 
 Hello! You have found my shop of rare and wonderful things!
 Line spoken by Toads at houses where rare items are contained 
 Arigatou! Yatto Kinoko Sekai ni heiwa ga modori mashita. Oshimaii! 
 Translation: Thank you! Peace has at last returned to our fair Mushroom Kingdom! THE END! 
 Line spoken by Princess Toadstool in the ending of the original Japanese version 
 The translation is sourced from the  Game Boy Advance  remake,  Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3 . 
 Super Mario Land [ edit ] 
 Oh, Daisy!
 Mario's quote after saving   Princess Daisy 
 Super Mario World [ edit ] 
 Welcome! This is Dinosaur Land. In this strange land we find that Princess Toadstool is missing again! Looks like Bowser is at it again!
 Narrative from the introduction 
 Hooray! Thank you so much for rescuing me. My name is Yoshi. On my way to rescue my friends, Bowser trapped me in that egg.
 Yoshi , when introducing himself to the player 
 With a little luck (and help from a magic cape), our hearty crew can defeat the seven worlds of Bowser's Krazy Koopa Kritters. Many locations are well-hidden so explore everywhere and try everything. Not all locations have to be explored to rescue the dinosaurs and save Princess Toadstool, but there are many "starry" treasures to be found in far-reaching places. You'll need to search all areas to find out what kinds of treasure are there... in  Super Mario World .
 From the English-language manual 
 Mario or Luigi's adventure is over. Mario/Luigi, the Princess, Yoshi, and his friends are going to take a vacation.
 The game's ending message 
 Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins [ edit ] 
 Obey Wario... Destroy Mario!
 Wario, in the game's North American commercial 
 While I was away crusading against the mystery alien Tatanga in Sarasaland, an evil creep took over my castle and put the people of Mario Land under his control with a magic spell. This intruder goes by the name of Wario. He has been jealous of my popularity ever since we were boys, and has tried to steal my castle many times. It seems he has succeeded this time. Wario has scattered the six golden coins from my castle all over Mario Land. These golden coins are guarded by those under Wario's spell. Without these coins, we can't get into the castle to deal with Wario. We must collect the six coins, attack Wario in the castle, and save everybody!
 Mario's explanation of the game's story in the English-language manual 
 Super Mario 64 [ edit ] 
 It's-a me, Mario!
 Mario's opening line 
 "Dear Mario, please come to the castle. I've baked a cake for you. Yours truly, Princess Toadstool".
 Princess Toadstool; the letter is signed "Peach" and she even says this signature when narrating the letter, leading the name "Peach" for the character to become known outside of Japan. 
 "Good-a-bye Bowser"
 What Mario can be heard saying when throwing Bowser out of bounds in full throttle 
 "Nooo! It can't be! You've really beaten me, Mario?!! My troops...worthless! They've turned over all the Power Stars! What?! There are 120 in all??? Amazing! There were some in the castle that I missed??!! Now I see peace returning to the world...Ooo! I really hate that! I can't watch--Im outta here! Just you wait until next time! Until then, keep that Control Stick smokin'! Bwa ha ha ha ha!" 
 Bowser after being  defeated  at the end of the game before retreating and the last Power Star appearing. 
 Thank you so much-a for to playing my game!
 Mario's line after the credits 
 Super Mario Sunshine [ edit ] 
 I am most concerned with the well-being of the princess in this dreadful heat. Master Mario, if you would, cross over to that shore and find some assistance.
 Toadsworth, as the player begins to take control of Mario for the first time 
 Leave my mama alone, you bad man! I won't let you take Mama Peach away! Yeah, Papa told me all about it. He told me my mama got kidnapped by a bad man named Mario... so I came to rescue her! (And yes… I  am  Bowser's son. And you're right about the graffiti. That  was  me.)  This  is my magic brush. When I draw with this, all my wishers come true. A strange man in a white coat. (And why did I framed Mario?) Papa told me everything. He said, "Mario's a bully, he never fights fair!". He (also) said, "Jr., you gotta try to outsmart Mario." So, I tried to get Mario sent to prison, but they didn't lock him up, and now he came to steal Mama Peach again! You... you pest, stop following us!
 Bowser Jr. , explaining his intentions after being properly introduced to the story 
 The vacation starts now!
 FLUDD in the ending 
 Super Mario Galaxy [ edit ] 
 Wahahaha! You made it! But I won't even need my dad's help to take care of you!
 Bowser Jr., upon his first confrontation with Mario 
 May the stars shine down on you.
 Rosalina 
 Welcome, welcome new galaxy!
 Mario's line heard at the end of the game 
 Super Mario Galaxy 2 [ edit ] 
 Hear me out now… Your special someone got kidnapped and now you gotta save her, am I right?
 Lubba, questioning Mario's intentions for his adventure 
 Hey, Bro! I'm all over the place these days, exploring the universe!
 Luigi, upon uniting with Mario 
 Super Mario Odyssey [ edit ] 
 Dr. Mario [ edit ] 
 Nurse Toadstool:  Dr. Mario, something terrible has happened! 
 Dr. Mario:  What's wrong, Nurse Toadstool? 
 Nurse Toadstool:  One of the experiments has gone out of control.  The viruses are spreading quickly! 
 Dr. Mario:  Oh no!  We've got to do something!  I have just developed a new vitamin that should be able to take care of it.  I sure hope this stuff works!
 From the English-language manual 
 NES Open Tournament Golf [ edit ] 
 Try to golf well, as a lower score may give you a higher player rank. That will increase the prize you can receive when you play in a tournament.
 Explanation from the cutscene that appears before a course is played 
 Mario Kart  series [ edit ] 
 Super Mario Kart [ edit ] 
 Hi everybody! Thanks for dropping to by the Super Mario Kart race track. My name is Lakitu; I run this track. If you need my help, I'll be around.
 Lakitu introducing himself in the game's English-language manual 
 If you fall into the water, you can still move slowly. But never fear! I will rescue you with my trusty fishing pole. Even if you fall off the edge of a "Ghost Valley" track or into the lava on one of the "Bowser Castle" tracks, I'll quickly reel you in to safety.
 One of Lakitu's "Master Tips" in the game's manual 
 Excellent driving! You are now a  Super Mario Kart  expert.
 Text displayed upon winning the Gold Trophy in the 100cc division; this also appears when you win in the 150cc division 
 Mario Kart 64 [ edit ] 
 Welcome to Mario Kart-a!
 Mario opens the game with this line. 
 I'm-a Luigi, number one!
 Luigi's (English) victory quote 
 I'm-a Wario! I'm-a gonna win!
 Wario's (English) victory quote 
 Super Circuit [ edit ] 
 Let's-a go!
 Mario 
 Here we go!
 Luigi 
 Double Dash!! [ edit ] 
 HI I'M DAISY!
 One of Daisy's recorded quotes 
 Oh, yeah! Who's #1 now? Luigi!
 Luigi's victory quote 
 I lost! To a buncha' losers!
 Quote that Wario says upon losing a race 
 Mario Kart DS [ edit ] 
 Yahoo! Here we go!
 Mario 
 Oh, yeah! Go, Luigi!
 Luigi 
 Arcade GP [ edit ] 
 
 
 Arcade GP 2 [ edit ] 
 
 
 Mario Kart Wii [ edit ] 
 Mario Kart ? Could've been Luigi!
 Luigi, in the alternative title screen 
 Why, everybody's cheating! Next time I cheat, too!
 Waluigi 
 Mario Kart 7 [ edit ] 
 
 
 Arcade GP DX [ edit ] 
 What kind of intense battle will unfold in this contrail peaceful kingdom?
 Announcer, about Peach's castle when the player chooses to race there. 
 Mario Kart 8 (Deluxe) [ edit ] 
 Mario Number One! 
 Mario 's line upon finishing a race in 1st place, taken from  Mario Kart Wii . Alternative quotes are  Hee hee! I got it!  and  Yahoo! , also taken from  Mario Kart Wii . 
 Oh, what happened? 
 Luigi's line upon finishing in 7th place or below. Alternative quotes are  Luigi not happy... , or sobbing and saying  Mama! 
 No problem! 
 Tanooki Mario's line when finishing in 2nd to 6th place. Other lines are  Ooo, I almost won!  and  Oh, I was so close! 
 Educational games [ edit ] 
 You won't find adobe here in Nairobi, but they do have some spectacular hotels.
 A police officer patrolling the streets of  Nairobi, Kenya  in  Mario is Missing! 
 Ah, Luigi, listen! I overheard Bowser telling the Koopa Kids to watch out for Fire Flowers. I think you need to use one to get rid of the guard!
 One of Mario's many "Videophone" messages in the PC version of  Mario is Missing! 
 Hey! Are you ready to Mario-cise? Okey-dokey. You do just like Mario, OK? One...Very good! Two...And three! Wheeeeee! ... Oh. Sorry. That's hard for you, but easy for me. You know why? ...I ain't got no body! Get it? No body? Hee-hee-hee-hee-hee!
 One of many quotes said by the floating disembodied head of Mario in the  Mario Teaches Typing  games 
 Wario Land  series [ edit ] 
 Super Mario Land 3 
 Rumor has it that the pirates of Kitchen Island have stolen the giant golden statue of Princess Toadstool. Mario is looking for it, but if I find it first, I could cash it in for a princess's ransom. With that cash and the pirates' other treasures and coins, I could buy a palace that is way bigger than Mario's pathetic excuse for a castle. Gah-ha-ha-haaah! What am I waiting for?
 Wario in the game's English-language manual 
 You're getting veeerry greedy. You are me, Wario! You're very handsome. You have amazing powers. Plunder vintage pirates' treasure, bag a bazillion coins, buy me a castle  bigger  than Mario's! Repeat after me, "I'm the bad guy in  Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3 , were being bad is good, and greed is good!"  [laughs diabolically]  Come and get it on  Game Boy , greedy.
 Wario in the game's North American commercial 
 Virtual Boy Wario Land 
 I, Wario, have an interesting story to tell. One day during my vacation in the Awazon River Basin, I landed my trusty seaplane,  Bulldog , and decided to relax in the shadow of the beautiful Aldegara Waterfall. While basking in the sun, I spied some strange creatures with masks entering the waterfall. This piqued my interest! I hurried over and followed them into the waterfall. Behind the falls there was a large cave, and in the back of the cave ... there was a vault filled with a glorious mountain of treasure!!
 Wario explaining the game's story in the English-language manual 
 Wait till they get a load of me! Nyehh-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-haah!
 Wario in the game's North American commercial 
 Wario Land 2 
 Aaargh! I can't believe that Captain Syrup and the Black Sugar Gang have stolen my treasure! I am one angry Wario! I'm going to get my treasures back if it's the last thing I do!  Wario Land 2  is much better than any of my previous games. Why, you ask? Because in this game, I am immortal! There is no Game Over! With multiple endings, you can play my game  many  times. Isn't that great?!
 Wario in the game's English-language manual 
 Wario Land 3 
 Ah-ha-ha-ha-ha-haah! Finally, I am myself again! Now I can rule this world and the outer one as well! I need you no longer, Wario. I shall crush you like a bug!!
 A mysterious figure later christened "Rudy the Clown," upon confronting Wario 
 Wario Land 4 
 I ain’t normal! And I don’t mean that I’m stupid! I can do all kinds of stuff that normal humans can’t, you know what I mean? How about that? Amazing, huh?
 Wario informing players of his skills in the game's English-language manual 
 I don’t always speak so crudely, you know. I’m just worried about you because you play so badly!! Why do I care? Because I’m the one that feels it when you screw up, that’s why!!! So just try to get better at this game, OK?! I’m begging you!
 Another quote from the game's manual, where Wario expresses concern that the player will lead him into some danger 
 Haven’t you kids ever done something that made you look stupid? Oh, is that right? Well, fine then! But even the powerful Wario gets into some embarrassing situations in this game! I eat too much and get all chubby, a bee stings my face and makes it swell like a balloon, my body catches fire, and all kinds of other bad things happen to me! But I’m a tough guy, so I keep coming back for more! You wimps could learn something from me!
 In the manual, Wario gives this speech informing readers of the kinds of tough times he experiences in-game. 
 Wario's Woods [ edit ] 
 Leave if you want to live: this is my territory!
 One of the in-game taunts that  Wario  gives to  Toad  in the  NES  version 
 I'm still in a good mood. If you back off now, I won't break you!
 Another taunt of Wario's, also from the NES version 
 We're not through, Toad - I'll pummel you yet!
 The last taunt that Wario gives before the NES version's ending 
 Yoshi  series [ edit ] 
 Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island 
 Go forth and find the other baby!! Don't let his parents get him back! Ever!!
 Kamek to his toadies, in the English-language manual 
 This paradise is Yoshi's Island, where all the Yoshis live. They are all in an uproar over the baby that fell from the sky. ... Wait! The baby seems to know where he wants to go... The bond between the twins informs each of them where the other one is. The Yoshis decide to carry the baby to his destination via a relay system. Now begins a new adventure for the Yoshis and Baby Mario.
 Introductory "narrative" in the cutscene viewed after selecting a new file 
 Yoshi, dear, that baby is going to cause disaster to befall the Koopas. So give him here before you accidentally get hurt!
 One of the many taunts that Kamek gives to Yoshi in the game's boss fights 
 Yoshi's Universal Gravitation 
 Money makes the world go 'round. Money is all that matters! Oh! Hey, you! You got lots of money or what? I'm the spirit who loves money more than anything!
 Spirit of Greed 
 I did not wish for the whole island to be entrapped like this. But no one can stop Hongo one he makes up his mind. As you can see, I was fired for opening up my big mouth.
 Spirit Who Loves Surprises 
 You can't just sit around and space out! You're in the way! Huh? You were running? You're slower than molasses! You see, I am the spirit who loves all things swift! I can't stand people who loaf around like slackers! Prove to me you can run fast as the wind... ...by getting six or more Happiness Medals. Then I'll let you go!
 Spirit of Speed 
 Yoshi's Island DS 
 Mirror, mirror on the wall, I've got a friend who's the ghastliest of them all! Are you frightened yet, little Yoshi?
 Kamek, upon summoning the boss character "Hector the Reflector" 
 Look at my lovely flower! It's feeding time, and you're the main course, Yoshi. If I were you, I'd look for something else to feed it!
 Kamek, upon summoning "Big Bungee Piranha" 
 Yoshi's New Island 
 You made it?! Huge mistake. Say hello to Big Beanie and his unstoppable vines!
 Kamek 
 See Fred there? Watch me bulk up his tough armour! Basically that means IT’S ALL OVER!
 Kamek, when summoning the boss character "Furious Fred de Fillet". 
 Game & Watch Gallery  series [ edit ] 
 Lots of things can happen when you collect more stars! ... So keep practicing, and keep playing those games!
 Mario in the "Present Room" in  Game & Watch Gallery 4 
 Hotel Mario [ edit ] 
 Opening: (Mario and Luigi approach a door where Bowser is waiting) Mario : Nice of the Princess to invite us over for a picnic, eh, Luigi? Luigi : I hope she made lotsa spaghetti Mario : Luigi! Look!  (grabs a note on the door)  It's from Bowser!  (reading)  "Dear pesky plumbers, The Koopalings and I have taken over the Mushroom Kingdom. The Princess is now a permanent guest at one of my 7 Koopa hotels. I dare you to find her if you can." We gotta find the Princess! Luigi :  (to player)  And you gotta help us! Mario :  (to player)  If you need instructions on how to get through the hotels, check out the enclosed instruction book. 
 Approaching fourth hotel: Mario : Get ready to catch her! Luigi : She's not coming down! Mario :  (points to sky)  She's up there! Mario : It's hard to see through those clouds!  (turns to player)  I hope we can get rid of them! Get the hint? 
 Approaching sixth hotel: Mario : Be careful! When you pinch Wendy's pennies, they pinch back! 
 Ah-ha! Here’s the problem: Too many toasters! You know what they say: "All toasters toast toast!"
 Mario in one of the cutscenes. An Internet meme has been made of the cutscene from which this quotation comes. 
 Mario Golf  series [ edit ] 
 Mario Golf 64 
 Mario Golf !? Should have been called  Wario Golf . Eh... still, are you gonna love it!
 Wario in the game's introduction 
 Okey-dokey, look out... FORE!
 One of Luigi's voice samples 
 Hurry up already!
 One of Mario's voice samples 
 Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour 
 I've-a been on fire lately, but I hope you'll challenge me!
 Mario's bio quote 
 Hey! I adore golf! It seems you do too. Want to play a round of 18?
 Peach's bio quote 
 Challenge me? You? I'm the best golfer in the world. I'm not scared!
 Wario's bio quote 
 Mario Tennis  series [ edit ] 
 Mario Tennis 64 
 Hey! Let's all play!
 Mario in the introduction 
 Come back here! What's the matter with you? Oh, my trophy!
 Luigi, to a Lakitu that seizes his trophy after he wins a tournament 
 Yay! I'm-a number one! Look, I'm-a dance! I'm-a sing! I'm-a so happy!
 Waluigi, after winning a tournament 
 Mario Tennis GB 
 Raucous rallies... Awesome opponents... And the greatest player ever!
 Introduction 
 I have never seen teamwork as good as yours! You're amazing!
 Princess Daisy 
 Let the match between Mario and [player's character] begin.
 Princess Peach, when officiating the final match between Mario and the player, at her castle 
 Mario Power Tennis 
 Nintendo! Ha ha ha ha ha ha! Camelot! Heh heh heh!
 Wario and Waluigi, when the game boots up. This also applies to  Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour 
 Don't expect mouth-to-mouth.
 Waluigi, in one of the blooper reels, after Bowser falls unconscious from being accidentally shocked 
 I love you so much... I love you.
 Mario, to Princess Peach in her victory scene 
 Oh no! Somebody cheated. I CAN'T LOSE!!!
 Wario 
 "Alright, yes, I won! Take that!"
 Princess Daisy 
 Mario Party  series [ edit ] 
 Mario Party [ edit ] 
 Wario! I gotta win!
 Wario's quote after winning a board game 
 Doh, I missed!
 Wario's quote after losing a minigame 
 Mario Party 2 [ edit ] 
 
 
 Mario Party 3 [ edit ] 
 Augh! I don't believe this! I've never lost - not even to my dad!
 Princess Daisy, after losing her Duel Match in Story Mode 
 My name is Waluigi! If you want the Mischief Star back, you must name me the Superstar!
 Waluigi, upon introducing himself to the player and the  Mario Party  series 
 Please make me the greatest Superstar in the universe!
 Quote shared by each of the six playable characters in Story Mode after the Millennium Star is defeated 
 Mario Party 4 [ edit ] 
 "Oh, I missed!"
 Peach after losing a minigame 
 "I'm-a the party star!"
 Mario after winning a board 
 Mario Party 5 [ edit ] 
 
 
 Mario Party 6 [ edit ] 
 Hey, I've-a got it! The Stars will help us end their fight! Let's throw a Mario Party to fill the Star Bank!
 Mario, announcing the decision to end Brighton and Twila's argument on behalf of all the playable characters in the pre-title prologue 
 Mario Party Advance [ edit ] 
 
 
 Mario Party 7 [ edit ] 
 Hey, stinky!
 Taunt that Mario gives when a character lower-ranked than he wins a Star 
 Training is like a road on the horizon with no beginning and no end. Keep training hard, young one.
 Koopa Master 
 Oh, I say! Hello there! It's me, Toadsworth! Yes, yes, let me tell you about what happened recently. You see, Mario and his friends are always busy fighting evil and saving the world and so forth, so I offered him a chance to come on a cruise around the world! Oh ho! Splendid! But in doing so, I apparently made that rogue Bowser somewhat angry.
 Toadsworth, explaining the game's story in the manual 
 Mario Party 8 [ edit ] 
 Welcome to the Star Carnival!
 MC Ballyhoo, when starting the game 
 Mario Party DS [ edit ] 
 
 
 Mario Party 9 [ edit ] 
 
 
 Island Tour [ edit ] 
 Yahoo! I'm the best!
 Bowser Jr.'s quote for winning a minigame in first place 
 Mario Party 10 [ edit ] 
 
 
 Star Rush [ edit ] 
 
 
 Top 100 [ edit ] 
 
 
 Super Mario Party [ edit ] 
 Yoshi! Yoshi! (It's Mario! I've gotta try extra hard!) 
 Yoshi when recruited as an ally by Mario 
 RPG games [ edit ] 
 Super Mario RPG 
   The way things stand, yours is a world where  wishes  can't come true anymore. 
   This isn't the time to be crying! They're waiting for me to come home! 
   Ahhh... The scent of boiling  lava ... It's so nice to be  home ! 
   You there! Are you the one in charge here? Do you know what your  weapons  have been doing to our world? Stop this nonsense at once! 
 Toad : Hey Mario! Lots of people use something called a "door" to go in and out of their houses... 
 
 Chancellor : Spores alive!!! You're telling us that Bowser has abducted the Princess AGAIN? 
 
 Mallow : Wow! You're THE Mario! I know all about you! You've got more JUMP in you than a box of frogs! 
 
 Toad : I forgot my bazooka at home! Sheesh... Give me a break, here. 
 
 Mallow : T...this must be... ... BELOME! Is that a fire hose or his tongue?! 
 
 Frogfucius : This may sound illogical, but I believe shooting stars can grant wishes... 
 
 Bowyer : 997! 998! 999! 1000! Nya ha ha! 1000 arrows! For cover they run, nya! FUN this is, yes. Nya! Another 1000 will I shoot! 
 
 ??? :  I serve... a higher authority. That Star Piece belongs to everyone. You can't keep it. 
 
 Geno : Let me explain... You've heard of wishing upon a shooting star? At the "Star Road", your wish is transformed into a star. When it's granted, it then turns into a shooting star and falls down to earth. So you see, the Star Road plays an integral role in granting wishes. But ever since a sword destroyed the "Star Road", everything's come to a halt. No stars have been made since. The way things stand, yours is a world where wishes can't come true anymore. 
 
 Bowser : Booster has such a nice place... I miss my fortress...I miss the good old days... Toadstool screaming in terror, Mario rushing in to save her... Oh geez, it's Mario! Oops.. Okay, okay.. Calm down! Don't let him see you like this! "Hey, how have you been?" NO! Not like that, dummy! Wrong tone! It needs more... confidence! YOU!! What're YOU doing HERE?! 
 
 Bowser : Yeah... I'm a piece of work, ain't I?! All this power, AND looks too! I know, I know, You're thinking, "A big strong guy like him would be great to have along!" right? I'm gonna do something I may regret later...! I'll let you join the "Koopa Troop". You can thank me later... 
 
 Booster : Chug-a-chug-a! Hoouuuooo! Chugga, chugga...hoooonk! This is my personal railway. Eh...? My! It's you again! I'm amazed you made it this far. Yes, quite amazing you are! Since you're here, maybe you could clear up something for me. My bride-to-be is chanting, "MARIOHELPMEMARIOHELPME". Is she showing her happiness? Hey, wait a second! Maybe "MARIO" is another guy! 
 
 Booster : Of course it's here! You lazy slobs couldn't find water if you were fish! 
 
 Bowser : They have no IDEA what they're up against! I'm lightning in a bottle! I'm an earthquake in a can! I'll bust this open in no time! You don't bring too much to the party, but why don't you help me here, anyway. At least you'll feel like you did SOMETHING! 
 
 Snifit 2 : Booster, Sir, uh... I believe that the bride may be...uh,...Crying... 
 Booster : Crying? But that's what people do when they're...sad!! How DISGUSTING! That stuff may be corrosive! It tastes...like the sea! 
 
 Bowser : Mario! No one, NO ONE, is authorized to kidnap the Princess except ME! It just wouldn't be right! Let's take her back to Mushroom Kingdom, where she belongs! 
 
 Bowser : They've thrown me out of my own... I mean...I decided to take a vacation! 
 
 Chancellor : Princess! You CAN'T be serious! You're NOT thinking of joining them, ARE YOU? This is sheer madness... You're a Princess! What will people say?! 
 
 Wishing star : "I wish I weren't such a crybaby." 
 Mallow : This one's private! Who do you think you are, spying on other people's wishes? 
 
 
 
 Wishing star : "Please let Mallow find his way home." 
 Mallow : Why, this wish is... It's from my mom and dad. They're wishing for me to come home! Sniffle... This isn't the time to be crying! They're waiting for me to come home! 
 
 Yaridovich : Eee hee hee! And to think I got the star without even soiling my hands! I'm such a genius, it scares me sometimes.  No wonder I'm so important! 
 
 Johnny Jones : Not so fast there! That star's a gift to me mate, Mario. You spineless dogs have no code of honor! We'll make you walk the plank! 
 
 Valentina : Halt! What, may I ask is THIS ugly thing?  [which is Mario disguised as a statue to infiltrate Nimbus Palace] 
 Garro : That's my latest masterpiece. I...I created it just for YOU...It's called... "A Plumber's Lament". Observe...the thick mustache...covering the sad, innocent smile of a simple fool... And the sideburns... conveying his blue collar roots.  And the legs...well defined...Strong. The legs of the masses!  Is it to your liking? 
 Valentina : Hmmm... I consider myself something of an art buff! And I've got to say... This is spectacular!! Garro...only YOU could have created sculptures with such gentle beauty and...raw power! 
 
 Valentina : Brat! And how DARE you listen in on a private conversation...! 
 Mallow : Private? PRIVATE?! Everyone in a 10 mile radius could hear you! 
 
 Axem Red : This Star Piece gives people hope! It needs to be destroyed! 
 
 Bowser : Ahhh... The scent of boiling lava... It's so nice to be home! Smithy's gonna pay for stealing my splendid castle from me! 
 
 Toadstool : You there! Are you the one in charge here? Do you know what your  weapons  have been doing to our world? Stop this nonsense at once! 
 
 Factory Director : I'm afraid that isn't possible.  Any dissent against Smithy will be dealt with by immediate meltdown. 
 Toadstool : M, melt down? You can't scare me, I've got Mario by my side! 
 
 Toadstool : Please! Don't make us go through any more! Just give us the star....NOW! 
 Smithy : Hurrumph! Better yet...   Why don't YOU give me YOUR stars. Why, then I could easily conquer this world! Then we could get rid of all wishes, and create a world filled with...WEAPONS!! 
 Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle 
 
 
 Paper Mario  series [ edit ] 
 Paper Mario 
 Oh, Mario! You came on me! You’re so sweet! Thank you!
 Paper Princess Peach, upon being seen by Paper Mario. 
 Great, just great. You're on an exciting adventure with Mario. Talk about unfair. See, someone has to look after this house, so I can't leave. Oh well. Take care of Mario, OK?
 Paper Luigi, once Paper Mario's active partner introduces him/herself to Paper Luigi 
 Another letter, duly delivered. A postman's work is never done.
 Postman Parakarry, one of Paper Mario's companions 
 The Thousand-Year Door 
 Rawk out, Great Gonzales! RAAAAAAAAAAAAWK!! Listen to me, Gonzales! Anybody who's beat me is not  allowed  to lose!!
 Rawk Hawk, a golden hawk-like character who is the champion of a fighting arena called the "Glitz Pit". 
 When Rawk Hawk says "Gonzales", he's addressing Paper Mario, whose fighting name in the Glitz Pit is "The Great Gonzales, Merciless Executioner". 
 Are all of you ready? And you there! In front of the TV! You listen up, too!
 Professor Frankly, when opening one of his speeches 
 I, Grodus, will build a new world! A perfect, ideal world... Yes. A world made by me, about me, and for me!
 Sir Grodus, the main antagonist 
 Super Paper Mario 
 Bleh heh heh heh heh heh... The man known as Blumiere died long ago. Now there is only Bleck! The Dark Prognosticus's choice to fulfill the prophecy. Nothing more!
 Count Bleck, the main antagonist 
 Master of dimensions... Pleaser of crowds... I am Dimentio!
 Dimentio, the true final boss 
 The Green Thunder strikes like lightning!
 Paper Luigi, in his brainwashed alter ego "Mr. L". 
 "The Green Thunder" is Paper Luigi's nickname in this alternate identity. 
 Sticker Star 
 As the Royal Stickers' caretaker, it's my duty to find all of them, or else I can't return to the Sticker Star!
 Kersti, a sticker fairy, who is the companion to Paper Mario in the game 
 If that's the way it is, then fine, I'll outshine you myself!
 Megasparkle Goomba, the first boss 
 I was disappearing... From ice to fog... Returning to the sky... I just wanted a body that wouldn't melt...
 Mizzter Blizzard, the fourth boss 
 Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam 
 Paper Mario  characters 
 If the 2 Bowsers were to join forces, I shudder to imagine the havoc they could wreak.
 Paper Peach 
 We'll see who's the crumpler and who's the crumplee!
 A Paper Goomba 
 Here we go!
 Paper Mario, in battle 
 Color Splash 
 Ha-ha! Go time!
 Paper Luigi, whenever Huey and Paper Mario find him, and gives them coins 
 I don't know how it happened, but some green paint fell out of the sky and repainted my kart!
 Paper Luigi, when he's riding on his kart 
 The Origami King 
 
 
 Mario & Luigi  series [ edit ] 
 Superstar Saga   (+ Bowser's Minions) 
 Hah! Hmph! Well, won't this be fun! Oh, yes prepare ur self! 
 If you are giving us the chase just to get your silly princess's voice, then you are idiots of foolishness. Princess Peach's sweet voice will soon be the bread that makes the sandwich of Cackletta's desires! And this battle shall be the delicious mustard on that bread — the mustard of your doom!
 Fawful , Cackletta's henchman and the game's breakout villain, after introducing himself 
 Oh, you think you're so smart, teaming up on me, huh? Don't think you can beat me just 'cause I'm alone: it's my solo debut on the battle lines, see?
 Popple, a recurring antagonist 
 Let's go! Okey-Dokey! 
 Mario and Luigi's lines, respectively, before a battle starts.
 This is also reused in every other subsequent  Mario & Luigi  game until  Bowser's Inside Story . 
 Minion Quest 
 
 Partners in Time 
 ''BACK TO ADVENTURE!''
 Recurring quote from the Mario brothers' sidekick "Stuffwell" 
 You are true and courageous. Your heart is filled with virtue and concern for your brother. I do recommend you watch your diet, however it is also filled with much  alfredo sauce . You should especially cut down on  carbonara , though it will be hard, for that is very tasty. If you curb your appetite, do some light  cardio work  and continue to ward your brother, you will no doubt grow to be a figure of immense popularity, yet not grow an immense belly. You may pass and I do recommend  puttanesca ; that stuff is great.
 The so-named "Star Gate", to Mario 
 These snacks ain't gonna snack on themselves!
 Baby Kamek 
 Bowser's Inside Story   (+ Bowser Jr.'s Journey) 
 I will let you take my cute Broggy out for a nice walk! He is so very savage, huh? Oui! He will bonk the foes! The strength, so formidable! The barking, so very scary! This cute fellow, he will fight for Monsieur Turtle Bits!
 The French-accented "Broque Monsieur", speaking to Bowser 
 I am the voice within! I am your consciousness... I am above, and all around. I am all that is you: a consciousness bound to you, as you are to me.
 Chakron, a motionlessly meditating octopus-like sage and portal system owner 
 You listen: Peach gone, Lord Fawful new ruler. Now, no need of you [Bowser]. Lord Fawful says sleep... now  you  sleep!
 The recurring antagonist Midbus 
 HELLO YELLO!
 Starlow, Mario and Luigi's travel companion 
 Bowser Jr.'s Journey 
 
 Dream Team 
 Screek!  I wanted to steal Peach's power, but I changed my mind! You are much stronger… and evil!  Screeeonk! 
 Antasma, the main villain of the game 
 Those who hinder me will become one with the light!
 Zeekeeper, the guardian of the Pi'illo Kingdom 
 I hope you mourn your decision for eternity...
 The enemy character Smoldergeist 
 Paper Jam 
 Here we go!
 Mario/Luigi, in battle 
 Like, if we get bored here, we could go terrorize  your  world someday...
 Bowser Jr., to Paper Mario 
 We need to get working on a new papercraft too. Lucky for you, I've got more ideas than you can shake a stick at!
 Toadette 
 Super Mario Advance [ edit ] 
 I am the Great Wart! Ha-ha-haaah!
 Wart, before the final battle 
 Step right up, if you're ready to get toasted!
 Tryclyde 
 All righty for a mushroom!
 One of Toad's voice samples; used when he executes a chain reaction 
 Luigi's Mansion [ edit ] 
 I'm getting too old for this ghost-catching tomfoolery.
 Professor Elvin Gadd 
 Wow! It's Luigi! You finally made it! Oh, joy! Thank goodness! ...Me? Well, Princess Peach asked me to come here to look for Mario. He left when he heard that you'd won a mansion, and he never returned! Then when I arrived here, the mansion was full of ghosts and I didn't see Mario anywhere, and I kind of freaked out a little, and I didn't know what to do! It's been awful! Please, please, please, you  have  to help me find Mario! If he doesn't get back, you have no idea how upset the princess will be! She'll flip!
 Toad 
 When the shy, timid Boos get together, their body and their attitude get BIG!
 Boolossus's in-game biography 
 Wario Ware, Inc. [ edit ] 
 It's me, Wario! Yeah, yeah... Listen, [player's name], just get the high scores! I call the games in the Wario game collection  anything goes games ! You impress me, [player's name]... but not that much!
 Wario 
 So anyway, you should know that the fortune-hunter Wario has inspired many of my strange games! He's always one degree ahead of cool, and he's even let me tag along with him on some of his money-grubbing adventures!
 Mona 
 Hey! My name is 9-Volt! I'm the grade-schooler gone old school!
 9-Volt 
 About the  Mario  franchise [ edit ] 
 Super Mario History 1985–2010 [ edit ] 
   There was so much enthusiasm on this project because we were trying to create something that had never been done before. ~  Koji Kondo 
 ( 32-page history book bundled with  Super Mario All-Stars 25th Anniversary Edition  for the Wii )
 
 There was so much enthusiasm on this project because we were trying to create something that had never been done before.
 Koji Kondo , discussing the development of  Super Mario Bros. 
 We were helped by many people when developing this game. But even with a larger team, I was still the worst gamer of the bunch.
 Takashi Tezuka , reminiscing his experiences when developing  Super Mario Bros. 3 
 Uprooting and lifting things as you played gave the game a new feel.
 Shigeru Miyamoto , about  Super Mario Bros. 2  ( Super Mario USA ) 
 Miscellaneous sources [ edit ] 
   I respect Shigeru Miyamoto, so there will be a lot of mushrooms in [ Metal Gear Solid 3 ]. But you cannot eat turtles. ~  Hideo Kojima 
 When we were designing [ Mario Kart 64 ], we wanted it to feel like the player is controlling an RC car. If you play this game and get this feeling, then we will be happy because we accomplished our goal.
 Hideki Konno ,  Nintendo Power  Volume 92, January 1997 
 I respect Shigeru Miyamoto, so there will be a lot of mushrooms in [ Metal Gear Solid 3 ]. But you cannot eat turtles.
 Hideo Kojima ,  Electronic Gaming Monthly  May 2004 
 Super Mario Bros.  is equivalent to the  Big Bang  of our gaming universe. If it were not for this blindingly spectacular creation, digital entertainment as we know it today would not exist.
 Hideo Kojima,  Nintendo Power  November 2010 
 Who knows how Mario will look in the future. Maybe he'll wear metallic clothes!
 Shigeru Miyamoto ,  Mario Mania  Player's Guide, 1991 (notably predating the Metal Cap power-up by five years) 
 The gameplay of  Mario  games originated early on with  Donkey Kong .  Donkey Kong  was a game where you were running on platforms and jumping over things — that came to be called a "platformer" style of video game (the genre was called "platforming"). Then it evolved from there, and we decided to try to incorporate more settings — things like the open air, the open sky, underwater and things like that. And to do that, we incorporated a side-scrolling mechanic where you scrolled sideways through the screens, and that became the base for the game that was  Super Mario Bros.  So that's the origin of the game play. 
 And so I think that  Mario  became so popular because the actions in the  Mario  game are something that are innate to humans everywhere. Everyone is afraid of falling from a great height. If there is a gap that you have to cross, everyone is going to try to run to jump across the gap. These are things that are uniquely human and are a shared experience across, really, all people. And I think because of the simplicity of these experiences as well as the interactive nature of controlling the character and seeing the response on the game screen — that's what really resonated with people and made Mario such a popular character. 
 The plumber role of Mario is actually a different story. In  Donkey Kong , Mario was actually a carpenter, and he was working on a building, and then the next game we made after that was a game called  Mario Bros. , and that was a game that was set in the sewers, and the pipes were green, and there were turtles coming out of the pipes. And so we thought, in this game, it would make sense that Mario would be a plumber because of all the pipes. And so that's where the plumber came from. But my vision of Mario has always been that he's sort of representative of everyone. He's kind of a blue-collar hero. And so that's why we chose these roles for him that were things like carpenters and plumbers. 
 He wears a hat because as I mentioned we had very few dots available to us to draw the character, and trying to draw hair that moves while you run would've been very complicated. So we gave him a hat to make it easier to draw but make him still look realistic. 
 * Miyamoto, when  interviewed  by  National Public Radio  (NPR) in June 2015. 
 If you think about stories like  Alice in Wonderland  or other types of fairy tales, mushrooms always seem to have a kind of mysterious power. And so we thought that the mushroom would be a good symbol why they get it and then grow big.
 Another quote by Miyamoto  from the above interview . 
 As soon as the [ Super Mario Galaxy ] project was over, we started making something that we might call version 1.5. We did things like moving or adding stars to levels that were already available... we realized that there were too many things to fit into a version 1.5. That made us realize we should start from scratch and make  Super Mario Galaxy 2. 
 Shigeru Miyamoto, during an  "Iwata Asks" interview 
 I don't let Mario appear in just any kind of game. Mario could not appear in  Zelda  games. They are two distinct game worlds.
 Shigeru Miyamoto,  Next Generation  Volume 4 No. 46 
 Send my regards to Doug.
 Reggie Fils-Aimé,  Nintendo Direct, April 1, 2019 
 Nintendo had become Japan’s biggest cultural export. Indeed, whereas the rest of the world devoured Japanese hardware—cars, Walkmans, TVs—Japanese “software,” such as movies, books, art, and music, had little impact outside Japan. The exception was video games. The most widely known Japanese cultural ambassador was Mario and with him came a new set of values. Generations of children had been imbued with  Mickey ’s message:  We play fair and we work hard and we’re in harmony.… M-I-C … See you real soon. K-E-Y … Why? Because we like you …  Mario imparted other values:  Kill or be killed. Time is running out. You are on your own. 
 David Sheff,  Game Over: How Nintendo Conquered the World , Vintage Books, 1994 (Kindle edition) 
 Mario is a character, a dumpy fellow with a big mustache; but he is also a stand-in, your iconic representation in the video universe. [...] If millions of children and adults have melded with Mario [...] it may not be simply a matter of our shortening attention spans, our craving for novelty or our susceptibility to expensive ad campaigns. It may be that in Mario’s fate—stuck in a world not of his own choosing, charged with a nearly impossible mission, doomed to perish sooner or later, yet free while he lives to grow, learn, slay demons and stop to smell the Fire Flowers—people are catching a crude, bright, hypnotic reflection of their own lives.
 Scott Rosenberg, "Condemned to Be Mario: The Video-game Plumber as Existential Hero",  San Francisco Examiner' s  Image Magazine , September 1991 (as quoted in: David Sheff,  Game Over: How Nintendo Conquered the World , Vintage Books, 1994 [Kindle edition]) 
 Cast [ edit ] 
 Charles Martinet  -  Mario  and  Luigi 
 External links [ edit ] 
 
 
 Wikipedia  has an article about:
 Mario (franchise) 
 
 
 King Koopa Quotes Collection from the Mario Cartoons 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikiquote.org/w/index.php?title=Mario_(franchise)&oldid=2866887 " 
 Category :  Mario (franchise) 
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Personal tools 
 
 
 
 
 Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Namespaces 
 
 
 
 
 Page Discussion 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Variants 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Views 
 
 
 
 
 Read Edit View history 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 More 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Navigation 
 
 
 
 
 Main page Community portal Village pump Recent changes Random page Help Donate Contact Wikiquote 
 
 
 
 
 
 Wikiquote links 
 
 
 
 
 People Literary works Proverbs Films TV shows Themes Categories 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tools 
 
 
 
 
 What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item 
 
 
 
 
 
 Print/export 
 
 
 
 
 Create a book Download as PDF Printable version 
 
 
 
 
 
 In other projects 
 
 
 
 
 Wikimedia Commons Wikipedia 
 
 
 
 
 
 In other languages 
 
 
 
 
 
 Add links 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  This page was last edited on 1 October 2020, at 12:24. 
 Text is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ; additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy. 
 
 
 Privacy policy 
 About Wikiquote 
 Disclaimers 
 Mobile view 
 Developers 
 Statistics 
 Cookie statement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
