Menu Menu Home My Nintendo missions Mario history News Check out the game Check out the game Check out the game Check out the game Check out the game Check out the game Check out the game Check out the game Check out the game Check out the game For the past 35 years, Mario has been running, jumping, and saving the Mushroom Kingdom from bad guys, and he couldn’t have done it without you. Thank you for always being there to help Mario on his incredible adventures. Previous Introduction 1985 1996 2002 2007 2017 Next Have a My Nintendo mission code? Redeem here! Mario in the news See more news Main Video Make more
Mario memories Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit™ Bring the fun of the Mario Kart™ series into the real world! Super Mario™ 3D All-Stars Play three of Mario’s greatest 3D platforming adventures—all in one package! Game & Watch™: Super Mario Bros.™ Get your hands on a new piece of Super Mario history with a collectable Game & Watch system! Super Mario™ 3D World + Bowser's Fury The frantic, fast-paced platformer arrives on the Nintendo Switch system for the first time. Paper Mario™: The Origami King Take on folded foes in this comedy-filled adventure. LEGO® Super Mario™ Two iconic worlds—together at last! Learn all about Mario’s many adventures through the years. See the timeline A 35th anniversary-themed Ninji Speedrun course is coming to Super Mario Maker 2 game, along with a special Super Smash Bros. Ultimate online tournament and Super Mario-themed Splatoon 2 Splatfest. More info coming soon! My Nintendo Missions Power up with cool Mario-themed rewards by completing My Nintendo missions. Mission type: Web-based Sign in to complete! Visit the official Super Mario website Mission Are you a Mushroom Kingdom expert? Test your knowledge of all things Mario! Take the quiz Find out what our favorite mustached hero has been up to lately. Read the news Customer support Game trademarks and copyrights are properties of their respective owners. Nintendo properties are trademarks of Nintendo. © 2020 Nintendo.