
 
 A Short History of Fencing 
 
	Fencing is probably one of the oldest games in existence, for it sprang
directly from the duel, and the latter has been extant as long as there has
been war.  In the old days there were duels between two persons, and often
between two whole armies, depending on the conditions of war.  The Germanic
tribes which swarmed over the Empire at the fall of Rome were perhaps the
earliest people to recognize combat with swords as a means of settling
questions of justice or of vindicating a grievance. 
	Under the Germanic influence the duel spread all over Christendom.  Even as
early as the reign of Charlemagne it was admitted as material proof in the
judgments of God.  This practice continued throughout the Middle Ages, as an
integral part of chivalry. 
	It was under the rule of their Catholic Majesties of Spain that the duel
first came under official ban, by the law of the city of Toledo in 1480.
Curiously enough, it is shortly before this time that we find the first book
on fencing, Treatise on Arms, by Diego de Valera, which was written between
1458 and 1471, and which marks the birth of fencing as a scientific art. 
	Some time later, when Spain became the leading power of Europe, the Spanish
armies carried fencing abroad and particularly into the south of Italy, then
one of the main battlefields of the nations.  By that time fencing had also
developed in the north of Italy where it was taught in the universities side
by side with law, in such cultural centres as Bologna and Venice, which were
then attracting students from every country in Europe. 
	If scientific fencing started first in Spain it was in Italy that we find
the first great schools where a fencing tradition was soon established
through the lessons and the writings of many famous master. 
	The weapons were at first used chiefly for offensive purposed, blows being
avoided by body shifts; later the defense was entrusted to some implement
carried by the left arm, a shield, a dagger, or a cloak. 
	As fencing gained in subtlety and efficiency the weapons became lighter and
this developed the use of the sword for parrying to the exclusion of
anything else.  The Italians preserved in their swords the old cross-bar of
the Middle Ages, cutting of the edges so that the bar would not protrude
over the circular guard.  The French, on the other hand, eliminated the
cross-bar entirely, thus losing some of the strength of the weapon but
adding to the ease of its handling.  During these changes the old Spanish
swords, which were gradual modification of the chivalric weapons, passed
into the museums, as the armies of Europe came to employ the sabre' and
later the modern firearm. 
	It was not until 1900 that Spain, the mother of scientific fencing, came to
have a distinct school of her own, under the Spanish master, Don Adelardo
Sanz.   The Spanish weapon is a modified form of the Italian cross-bar, so
shaped as to facilitate the action of the thumb and index finger in securing
the dexterity of the French weapon while preserving the strength of the
Italian sword.  In some parts of Europe it is called the Portuguese foil. 
	These three schools of fencing which today differ little except insofar as
the peculiarities of each type of weapon demand, dominate fencing all over
the world.  The Italian school predominates in Italy, Hungary, Austria,
South America and Germany. 
	The French school predominates in France, England, the United States, and
Central America. 
	The Spanish school predominates in Spain and Portugal. 
	Each has had its share of great fencing masters:  men like Greco, Pini,
Pessina, and Nadi, in Italy;  Kirchoffer, Merignac, Rue, and Gaudin in
France;  Sanz and Carbonel in Spain. 
	Italian fencing at the end of the seventeenth century divided into two
separate schools, the Bolognese or Italian proper, and the Neapolitan;
rivalries between the two schools and the general backwardness of the
century brought indifference towards fencing, and a revival occurred only at
the time of the Napoleonic wars when the enthusiasm for everything military
gave rebirth to fencing. 
	For a while the French school predominated until a revival of the national
spirit brought back the principles of the old Italian schools which found
new followers and supporter: finally, a so-called mixed school, embodying
the best principles of the Italian and French schools, was generally adopted. 
	The chief contribution of the French to this mixed school was to make the
disengage a continuous movement, simultaneous with the lunge.  The classical
Italian school had made the feint of a disengage and the following lunge
distinct movements, and this change revolutionized fencing in Italy. 
	In 1861 with the founding of the Accademia Nazionale d'Scherme, Naples,
became the centre of fencing but it was soon overcome in importance by other
centres, such as Milan, Leghorn, and Rome.  The rivalry between the north
and south still persisted for a while but, at present, the differences in
the teachings of the various masters in Italy are only variations of a
unified system. 
 History in The United States and South America 
	Fencing begins to appear as a popular sport on this side of the Atlantic
only recently, that is since 1900.  Under the leadership of the great
Italian master Eugene Pini in the Argentine, and under the French master,
Lucien Merignac, in Mexico and some Spanish masters in Cuba, these countries
made considerable progress at the turn of the century. 
 taken from "The Theory and Practice of Fencing" by Julio Martinex
Castello   1933 
 
 
<a href="mailto:fencing@hcs.harvard.edu>fencing@hcs.harvard.edu 
 
